Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes. Our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 81 recorded
live Thursday, September 1st, 2011. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
teller Ricardi controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottlerik.com. In this episode,
the first in a series
on startups, Scott talks with
Gabriel Weinberg about his new
search engine. Duck, duck go.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today just
because I decided at this
very moment, it's the first
episode of our startups series
and I'm talking to Gabriel
Weinberg, founder of duck, duck
go. How's it going, sir?
Very good. Thank you for
having me. Thank you for
being here. I looked on
your blog and did some
research on you and you
are an overnight success that
took about 15 years. You
could say something like that.
You have this great blog
post that's a, it might
even be like your most
popular. That is a list
of all of your successes
and failures. What's the ratio.
Typically you think of people
who are in the startup
space. How many times do
you have to fail before
you actually hit it? Hmm.
That is a interesting question.
And I've also failed in
different types of ways, like
give you something for a
week or a month or
even years. And so I
don't know, but I think
failure shapes you in a
good way. And so, I
mean, that's why I wrote
that post is to get
out there. That failing is
is okay. And I actually,
the other approach that I
like to take to it
is having a career path
as you have a startup
career path. And so if
you think about startups as
a career path, it takes
you awhile to learn how
to do it. And what
you don't want is to
have the one and done
attitude where you give it
one shot and it fails.
And then you're back to
your job because that almost
never works. So I don't
know how many times you
have to fail to make
it successful, but I know
you're generally not successful on
the first shot. So that's
a really interesting that just
like clicked something in my
brain. Like take like two
people, both 20 years old,
both coming out of college.
One goes to work at
like, you know, I don't
know, Aflac insurance, the other
one goes and does a
startup. It's always expected that
the startup guy is either
going to succeed or fail.
And then after if he
fails, he'll just, you know,
he'll work at Jack in
the box, the rest of
his life. But you never
hear about like the guy
at Aflac saying, yeah, I
went in there and I
just, I kicked this jobs,
but now I'm 22 and
I'm a VP. It's always
understood that the Aflac guy
is going to have to
work for 20 years. Why
is it, why is there
a myth of that? A
startup somehow has some that
you go out there and
you nail it and you
knock it out of the
park as opposed to taking
20 years at apprenticing and
journeymen and all that kind
of stuff. Exactly. And there
are paths to do that,
right? So the apprentice journeyman
thing is you can be
the first employee at a
startup. Another thing I did,
which is do consulting on
the side, but really restricted
to only working four hours
a day. And, you know,
I upped my rate a
bit, but I was living
very frugally, but I could
focus most of the day
on startup stuff. And, you
know, consulting web consulting is
great for that because you
can really limit it to
two hours like that. Hmm
I've I've, I've always been
afraid to do a startup
after I got married and
had kids because, and I'm
always fascinated in the like
day to day, how do
you live part of it?
Like you've got kids and
you put, you've also got
a pile of startups and
ideas and failed deployments kind
of under your, you know,
your experience bag. What was
it like? Did you get
married and say, all right,
this is what we're going
to do. We're going to
live frugally. This is my
career. My career is going
to be a series of
failures. But if you stick
with me, I'm going to
nail one or two. Yeah.
I was lucky in that
this, the success happened before
we had kids though. And
I think it, that I
could see it being a
lot more difficult if you
ha if you try to
start after you have kids.
Right. But my spouse also
works, you know, has a
great job. And so that
also helps as well. But
I, I think it becomes
a lot easier, right? When
you're college example, if you
start right out of college
because you don't have kids,
then usually, and that's what
I did. I started right
out of college. And then
once you're, you know, it
took me six years or
so, or seven before there
was six or seven before
there was a success, but
I was still only, you
know, 26, 27. And we
didn't have kids yet, but
there's a lot of years
in your twenties. In other
words, what I'm saying, But
presumably you weren't discouraged at
this point. No, I was
not discouraged. So it sounds
like you had a practical
idea that, okay, this is
gonna take a while. This
is a slog. It's not
going to be like Facebook.
Yeah. Although honestly, it wasn't
as thought out a plan
as you're making it to
me. When I graduated school,
I just decided I wanted
to do it. And I
did it. And I wasn't
thinking about success or failure.
And the first failure really
hit me hard actually. And
that's when I had put
everything into that, raised some
friends and family money. I
lost that. And that's when
I sort of regrouped and
slowly got back into it,
doing consulting and just did
it again because that's what
I liked and wanted to
do. I didn't necessarily, wasn't
thinking I'm going to do
it for X years if
I'm not successful sweat, you
know what I mean? I
just sort of kept That's.
That's interesting that with the
benefit of hindsight, I think
that anyone with some measure
of success then eventually gets
asked by some, you know,
young upstart, like, Oh, how
can I have your success?
And when you tell the
story backwards of how it
went down, it could look
like it's a master plan.
And even though you tell
them, well, there was no
plan. I had no idea.
I mean, we had like,
there's like three guys in
a futon and there was
a keg and now there's
a startup. But in retrospect
it always seems magical. And
I have people tell me,
like, you know, how do
you, how do you get
it immediate? How do you
do blogging? How do you
go work for Microsoft? And
I tell them the story
about how I fell into
a community college. And I
was supposed to meet a
buddy there and he never
showed up. And I enrolled
in the computer science program
and that's what happened, you
know? And it it's like
disappeared. They don't believe it
though. They don't believe that
there was no plan at
all. None of this was
planned, but it could be
a recipe of success if
you follow it. Exactly. I
suppose, I believe A lot
in the, who was it?
Was it Woody Allen? 90%
is showing up or something
like that? I, I believe
a lot in that. And
with startups in particular, there's
a lot involved in timing.
And so if you're around
for a while, doing something
often, your time comes if
you're not, you know, 15
years early. And so, you
know, I sort of believe
in general in life, if
you're super persistent and you
just work at it in
the same thing is true
with blogging. As I've learned
the last couple of years,
you know, eventually it generally
works out. I, I listened
to this really great interview
with Mark Marin. Who's a
comedian who started turd, a
podcast and his, his time
has never come. And that's
kind of like the, the
angsty thing about his podcast
is he, it's basically him
interviewing his famous friends. And
he's the one guy who
just didn't ever happen for.
And he interviewed Paul riser,
the American comedian and sitcoms
star, and Paul riser was
talking about how one, one
day he was like, I
think he's like 19 or
20. And he went up
to Peter Falk who played
Colombo. And he said, Hey,
I really want to write
a script. You wrote this
great script. How do you
write a script? And Peter Fox
said, well, you, you put
some paper in a typewriter
and you type fade in
and you keep typing. And
he was like, wow. And
he never like absorbed it
quite like that. But so
many people who fail just
simply don't finish. So it
was interesting when I looked
at your list, you were
pretty hard on yourself. You
were basically saying, here's a
great project. Here is a
great project. This didn't work
out, that didn't work out,
but I kind of re
I'm reading into it a
little bit, but it seemed
like the ones that you
regretted were the ones that
you never even deployed, like
they exist and only on
your hard drive. Yeah, exactly.
I mean, I think you
have to, you have to
put yourself out there for,
for things to be successful.
You know, it's like the
first thing you have to
do. And a lot of
people don't get to that
point and they're just shooting
themselves in the foot as
was I, you know, on
those, I did a, I
did a post recently about
being a phony and the
idea of the imposter syndrome.
And that resonated with me.
Vis-a-vis your list of failures?
It seems like when people
talk about that stuff openly,
like everyone comes out of
the woodwork, like with your
posts that you wrote about
all the failures, it's like,
wow, you mean you didn't
just invent duck, duck go
like out of nowhere and
had no experience failing at
all. Yeah. I, I saw
your post to it and
liked it. And I agree.
They really bring people out
of the woodwork. And I
wrote this other post recently
about blogging. Cause I committed
to blogging a couple of
years ago. And it was
the first time I, similarly
I had started lots of
blogs and failed at them.
And then this time I,
I would just like your
typewrite example. I said, I'm
going to commit. I'm just
going to write a hundred
posts in 2010 and try
to make them quality posts,
you know, and whatever happens
happen, and you know, worked
well. And in 2011, I've
slowed down the pace, but
done longer things. But it
was basically just writing, you
know, spending the time to
write it, write stuff down.
But with the, with this
commitment post about blogging and
it was thinking in retrospect,
it's like, there's so little
of these posts and they're
so impactful for people. I
don't know why people don't
more write about stuff in
the trenches. You know, people
just want to write when
they're successful and say, look
here I was successful. But
they, even at those times,
they don't like to write
and reveal exactly why they
think they were successful and
all the numbers behind it,
but people love reading it.
You know, I think if
you, if you, there's a
shortcut to blogging, there's an
under utilized, you know, there's
an area of posts that
is completely under utilized and
that's it. If you're a
startup, you could go out
and start writing all, all
that stuff down. And I
think people would eat it
up. Yeah. I totally agree.
One of the websites that
I read a lot of
is Marco Arment, the creator
of Instapaper. And I think
he worked at Tumblr and
what's great about his blog
as he talks about like
the actual stats, like, you
know, I'm thinking about removing
support for this version of
iOS. And here's what, how
I am making my decision.
It's like detailed statistical analysis
about what I'm going to
do before he does it.
So rather than a post
about I did this and
it worked out great. And
aren't, I awesome. It's almost
like him using like, Oh,
what am I going to
drop support for three? What
am I going to, well,
I could do this. I
could do that. And that's,
that makes the success not
seem like it is just
simply, you know, gratis and
just happens for him. You
can see that there's work
involved in doing this. And
I'm surprised that so many
people, not just in their,
in their startup work, but
in any work at all,
try to keep things a
secret. Maybe they're afraid of
being judged, or maybe they're
concerned that we're going to
look, look down on them,
but say what you're working
on and the decisions behind
it and how it makes
you feel. There's like less
honesty in blogging now, you
know, and I think is
related to the Fear of
kind of rejection and criticism.
And I think that's legitimate,
you know, people, I ha
almost every post I write
that gets submitted somewhere. You
know, you read the comments,
a lot of them, you
know, people are critical in
general on the web, but
you have to get over
that. You know, it, it,
it reminds me a lot
about public of public speaking
and the fear of there,
which is a valid fear,
but it just, I think
everyone would be better off,
especially in the startup world
because startup involve risk. If
you got over those fears,
you know, it would help
you. Yeah, absolutely. Let's shift
gears a little bit and
talk about dr. Go, because
I think that's, what's, there's
a couple of interesting things,
as I, as I, again,
read into patterns in your,
in your list of failed
projects, as you actually come
up to one that's very
successful. Is that in each
of your projects, you say,
well, this is essentially this
or this is essentially that
I wrote this and it
was kind of like posturing.
And I'm curious are your
projects that you compare to
successful projects, the ones that
you failed on that you
compare to successful ones? Were
they first, or were they
similar because DuckDuckGo is essentially
Google, but then essentially not
at all in ways that
you'll tell us which you've
done several other projects that
you compare to ones that
we've heard of. All the
other ones I compare it
to are pretty much first.
And I was too early.
And part of the failure,
there was like I was
saying before, it's just not
staying around long enough, you
know, take taking the site
down and it wasn't successful,
not, you know, a B
testing enough. Some of those
were too niche, but yeah,
they were generally first and
duct echo is obviously, you
know, a way late to
the search engine market, but
offering a different approach to
it. And then my last
company that the other one
was successful was sort of
in the middle. I, it
was just sort of a
weird company. It was close,
closest thing. You compare it
to his classmates.com who, who
bought it eventually. But when
we started out, it didn't
look like that at all.
I mean, that's eventually where
we ended up, but it
was just sort of on
its own. It's funny how
those kinds of things happen.
So when did you have,
like, when, when were you
just sitting around and have
the audacity to say, you
know, not so much with
the Google, let's do our
own thing. So both a
reason why it's one reason
why there's so many lists
of projects is the second
and third time I was
really trying to start a
company. I started a bunch
of different projects and then
worked on them all at
the same time and, and
let them flow. And then
eventually, you know, picked one,
I was lucky enough that
one sort of ended up
being successful and I could
focus on that. And so
most of those just started
out as side projects or
just things I was interested
in. And so the doctor
go in particular, started out
with this side project. It
was two different side projects,
actually. So at the end
of 2007, I had taken
a stained glass class and
I was unhappy with the
Google links that it was
returning. When you typed in
stained glass, they weren't very
relevant and they were very
commercially oriented. And, you know,
in particular, the person who
run the class had given
us a different set of
links and they were more
in line with the links
that on Wikipedia, as external
links and delicious was given
at the time. And my
thought was twofold. One, is
there a way to get
rid of all the SEO
parked domain, useless domain crap
out of Google. And two,
is there a way to
use, you know, these other
curated sites like Wikipedia and
delicious to make better results.
And so my side project
was mashing up Wikipedia and
delicious, and just seeing what
came up when you typed
in results and I've done
over a weekend. And then
the other side project was,
if I start crawling, the
web can identify some of
these spam sites. So I
did those in parallel. It's
just two projects. And then
I liked the results on
both. And I decided just
to, you know, put them
together and try to come
up with something to launch.
And so that's how I
got really, it was born,
but I wasn't set out
trying to make a general
search engine. Hi, this is
Scott coming to you from
another place in time. Are
you using agile practices to
manage your software development? There's
lots of tools in the
market that manage the steps
of a project, but most
of them focus on individual
roles, get ready for a
solution that caters for the
success of the whole team.
Guys at Tellerik introduced team
pulse to an agile project
management tool. That'll help you
gather ideas, estimate plan, track
progress in a common workspace.
Finally, companies, regardless of their
size can use a lightweight
and convenient tool that makes
all the stakeholders work as
a United team. Even if
they're in different countries by
combining intuitive user interface and
the power server light team
poles removes the roadblocks that
you typically face and applying
agile in an effective manner,
no more lost data, no
disparate systems, no lack of
critical analytics regarding the health
and philosophy project. So if
yourself get a free copy
for five users in one
project at tellerik.com/team pulse, and
please do thank tolerance for
supporting Hansel minutes on their
Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t L
E R I K coloring.
We do appreciate it. It
wouldn't be a handsome, and
if there wasn't, Tellerik helping
us. So if I, if
I understand correctly, you're saying
that you, this is going
to sound like, like, like
a, like a softball question,
but literally when I was
developing it in my mind,
it sounded like the right
thing to say. But I'm
thinking to myself, you're saying
that you actually care about
the results that are coming
out of your search engine.
Like, I mean, like when
someone types in stain glass,
you would like your search
engine to return the kinds
of things that an expert
in stained glass would like
you to know, as opposed
to what 10 million people who
want to sell you, stain
glass would like you to
know. Exactly. Exactly. And, and
initially one of the approaches
I had was actually something
that Mahalo and Squidoo, I
guess, tried to do a
bit, which was find experts,
you know, and get them
to tell you those links,
you know, or use experts
like from delicious and stuff.
But the expert notion managing
your own community ends up
being difficult for a lot
of reasons. And so I
got away from that a
bit, but yeah, that we
care very deeply about the
search results. I mean, that's
the basic premise. Well, Mahalo
was like, they were trying
to basically crowd source, Google.
They're like a combination of
Wikipedia and crowdsourcing and say,
let's find a bunch of
really smart people and they'll
go and they'll write and
they'll do that kind of
a long tail thing, right?
Like a long tail is
not as important, but the,
the main stuff people are
searching for, we can find
smart people to go and
write those results and curate
those links, but they never
really took off. I mean,
it's out there and I'm
sure there are people who
are obsessed with it, but
I, I haven't even thought
about it in the last
year until you just said
it, Pivoted, Amanda says startup
term for changing their direction
recently. And now they're doing
how to videos sort of
high quality how to videos.
But yeah, I mean, it
didn't really take off and
there were other ones like
that. So, you know, yeah.
The original Yahoo directory was
sort of like that, except
Yahoo did it internally. And
then DeMoz if the open
directory project, if you remember
that, which is still around,
but very spam written at
this point, try to do
that in an open source
way and have editors appointed
for various topics. But both
of those became very hard
to manage and eventually were
littered with, you know, expired
and irrelevant links that have
changed hands. You know, people
weren't paying enough attention to
it. So are your links
curated? I mean, is there
a human out there? So
right now we're sort of
a hybrid and we do
a couple things differently. So
we are drawing on, on
deep search results generally from
other search engines. So we
have a bunch of indexes
on top of them that
remove spam and rearrange them
and try to get more
along the lines of what
we're talking about. But then
we have our own indexes
that we often put on
top of those results. And
some of those are links,
you know, for like originally,
like I said, from Wikipedia,
external links, that's one of
the sources and there's, you
know, about 50 others. And
then some of them, we
put on top of their
results and that's the most
visible difference where we put
this red box on top
that I call zero click
info. Or if you search
for something like a general
topic, often you'll get this
red box that defines it.
And that's also from a,
a source like Wikipedia. And
that's key. That portion is
curated. So it's a hybrid.
So I just, I just
ego searched for myself. And
I got a red box.
The top of the picture
of my, which is creepy.
Thank you. And it says,
Scott Hanselman is affiliated with
Microsoft more at Crunchbase. And
then it actually tells you
the last two places that
I worked. And then it
actually has my blog with
a link that says official
site. So I'm verified. I
feel very excited about that.
So you've somehow someone or
some machine somehow has figured
out that that's really me.
Yes. And all that, all
that part is, is, is
curated. And then that Twitter,
then it shows your Twitter
that, that those links that
look different, you know, see
how they don't have snippets.
No one else can see
this, but maybe they can
search for you on the
site. Those are, those are
those cure, more curated links
that I'm talking about. So
it says, got my Twitter.
And then this is interesting.
It's actually got Facebook and
LinkedIn and Quora, and it's
somehow has collected all of
the MES, my social identity
all over the place. Yeah.
So One of our approach
is that when you search
something on Google, generally, there's
a place out there that
gives much better results than
the algorithmic results. And part
of our job is to
make, do that ourselves. But
what we've become, or we're
trying to become is a
recognition that there are tons
of other engines and data
sources that do very well
at certain searches. And we
want to bring those in,
you know, so in this
case, Crunchbase does a good
job. So we want to
put that on top, but
this Twitter case is an
API example. This is actually
using queerly Q w E
R L y.com. And they
have an API that associates,
Twitter handles with all your
other stuff. Wow. And so
when we recognize, we know
that it's your Twitter. So
we put that on top
and then we recognize it's
a Twitter link. And so
we'd go out in real
time and call their API
and then add in all
these icons for you. And
you do this in real
time. What if they're not
as popular as you are?
And suddenly you have this
relationship with queerly, which of
course, and I can't see
that relationship from this link,
but you're now querying them.
You have a dependency on
them. Yes. And so generally
for topical stuff, there's multiple
parties we could work with
for something like clearly, if
it fell apart, for some
reason we'd lose this nice
feature, but it wouldn't be
the end of the world,
you know? And there are
other replacements for it, but
we haven't had that kind
of issue yet. And the
thing when I said the
word audacity before, the idea
that the player in your
space is so huge, does
that make it either more
difficult or less difficult to
enter the space? Cause like
some people might say, well,
who do you think you
are fricking Google, right? I
mean, you're going up against
Skynet. So generally if there's
a huge player in the
space, I think it's good
for you because it means
there's a huge market. And
you know, you can generally
form a niche within it
and get some people to
switch to you and they
validated it. And also people
don't like other entrepreneurs often
don't go for it because
they're scared of it. In
the Google case, it gets
a little more complicated because
Google is so entrenched in
people's mind with search, they
have such a far and
away monopoly that it's hard
to get people to switch,
but that didn't bother me.
It didn't bother me too
much in the sense that
I know that there are
niches within, I believe that
people do prefer a different
search engines in the same
way. They prefer different web
browsers. And you know, we'll
be able to find our
niche. And I mean, we,
we are starting to now,
but I think it's a
bigger percentage of people As
I'm, as I'm scrolling down,
I'm just using my I'm
not completely Romania, but I'm
using my ego search as
an example. Cause I know,
I know what I get
when I search for myself
elsewhere, I'm scrolling down and
I'm noticing that it's like
attractive. It's a pleasant looking
for series of results. There's
like favorite icons on the
side. Occasionally my smiling face
will show up and then
I get down here and
I see a link and
it says results by being
alongside something. So it sounds
like you have relationships maybe
with other search engines. Yeah.
So that's the hybrid piece
where for the, for deep
results, we also use a
bunch of other search engines
and it's sort of a
meadow way. And then we,
if you compare the two,
you'll notice they're a lot
different generally, but that's because
we, you know, rearrange everything
and, you know, change things
around. But some of those
search engines that we use
have branding requirements. And so
that's where, that's where we
have a bang and Yahoo
logo there. Does that mean
that the one, the, the,
the result that is next
to that logo is the
one or does that mean
that it's interleaved? Yeah, Julie,
I just took the approach
to, we probably don't have
to do it that we
probably don't have to put
it there or that prominently,
but I took the approach.
Just put it way Very,
it's very nice to give
people, people, their props, I
guess. Yeah. And then there's
a bunch of others listed
in the FAQ page, but
yeah, we use, you know,
being in Yahoo, including we
use the startup search engine
and let go some and
an entire web and you
know, then we use other
APIs, like the quarterly one,
but also things like, well
from alpha. So how much
of this is you and
how much of this is
like, like before Google and
this is dating myself as
being astonishingly old, but I
used MetaCrawler and like, there
was a time there, like
maybe about a year, whereas
like, man, there was nothing
else in the web except
MetaCrawler. And it was the
crawl of the crawl, the
other crawlers. How much are
you a MetaCrawler like, what
percentage of the pie chart
is you and your results
and you just being smart
about using other people's results.
Right? So it's a little
hard to tease out because
what we want to do
is for about 80% of
the searches have that red
box and curated links on
top. And then the rest
will be using other people,
but people click the vast
majority of on the top
stuff really. And they often
don't even look or click
on anything below the top
three. And so if you
count, you know, and we
have infinite scrolling, right? So
as far as us, so
if you count like all
the things below, right, you
might say, Oh, we use
a lot of other people's
results. But if you think
about that, this our stuff
is generally on top. Then
it's often the majority of
stuff is ours. So it's
hard to say, but that's
why I just say we're
a hybrid. I love that
you have infinite scrolling though,
because I'm in this, I'm
in this Epic battle right
now with the Scott toilet
paper people, you gotta be
the first Scott on Google,
because this is joke that,
you know, if you're, if
you're not on the first
page of Google and you're
just not on the internet,
the second page doesn't even
exist. But with infinite scrolling,
it does. Yeah. I mean,
unfortunately it still doesn't exist
much. Yeah. I hear you.
W w if you don't
mind my asking some technical
questions that help me understand,
like, what is this, what
is this built in? I
mean, the, the idea of
indexing the web or indexing
anything that big, it seems
really overwhelming, Right? So because
of the hybrid approach, we
don't have to, we don't
index like crazy and use
a lot of storage cause
we can compress our stuff
down to pretty small, but
we do do a lot
of crawling and we do
have our indexes. And so
most of the code is
actually right in Perl language
wise for database stuff, we
use a bunch of different
data stores depending on the
source. So we have some
in solar, the Lucene based
search engine. We have some
in PostgreSQL the database, and
then we have some in
some flat file formats, a
a lot in this sort
of esoteric format called CDB,
which is a read only
database format. That's optimized for
speed, but those are the
main stores. And then we
use engine X for the
web server with memcache and
we run everything on ECG
now. Oh, okay. So when
I'm hitting that, I'm hitting
duck, duck go, I'm indirectly,
I'm hitting the web server
and everything's being served through
ISTE too. Yep. So you
sit on top of Amazon.
Yep. And what does, what
does success look like? Like,
is this a boutique, like
sometimes start up, people will
say they want to start
a boutique. And that just
means I want a company
that will support me as
I do my other stuff.
Or is there an exit
where Google like calls you
and they're like, we give
up, you're awesome. Let's work
something out. The market itself
is very, very lucrative. And
so, and I, my argument
is that our approach is
very mainstream and I think
lots of people would refer
what we're doing. So my
argument is I think we
can capture real market share
and build a very big
company out of it, independent
of anyone acquiring us or
anything. And so that's the
goal. That's cool. So at
some point some future time,
you've got 20, 30, 40%
of the market and you
know, it's like, Hey, you
know, when they're having a
panel with, with Google, they
gotta get duck to come
hang out too. Well, I'm
not going to go so
much on the audacity to
claim 20, 30%. I, you
know, the first goal is
1%. Right. But I think
that we, I think this
approach, this hybrid approach could
get up to a 10%
kind of level. Something like
that. Since, since I worked
for Microsoft, although Microsoft is
not affiliated with this podcast,
when Bing came out, I
was like, you know, kind
of obligated to give it
a try. And I think
it's really pretty. And I
like it as my startup
page, but maybe I don't
know, 30, 40% of the
time, I don't find what
I want. And then I
go and Google for it.
And I call that Googling
with being so I'll, I'll,
I'll, I'll go and open
a bingo for something or
whatever the hell they call
it. And then I'll Google
for it. How often when
you're using your own product,
do you search for something?
And then you go, Oh,
Hey, where is, I know
that that link is there.
Where is that? And then
how do you solve that
problem? So we have abilities
to get to Google pretty
quickly. We have this thing
called bang commands, where you
can add a exclamation point,
anything and go to that
site. So you can add
10 to your search exclamation
point G and go to
Google or a, and go
to Amazon. And there's about
a thousand of these. I
pretty much use octagon exclusively.
Occasionally I will try stuff
if I run out of
stuff in Google or bang.
And actually if we were
not a results, we just,
we have a link directly
to Google and being, you
can try it yourself. I
would, we encourage you to
try it. But I generally
don't find if I run
out of results here, I
didn't really don't find it
anywhere else either. But there
are definitely edge cases where
we just totally screw up.
In which case other times
other search engines will do
a better job, you know,
and vice versa. And then
how do you solve that
though, as the guy who
owns the company, do you
say, well, what is it
algorithmically that caused us to
not get that? Or do
you, do you ever go
hunt that down and say,
guys, go figure out why
this link. Isn't something we
know about. Exactly. I do
that all the time and
we encourage feedback. And so
there's a link in the
bottom, right. Of each page.
And it's also on the
menu at the top to
give feedback. And so we
get tons of feedback and
I'm constantly chasing down these,
these cases to try to
improve it. I like this
idea of the Spang thing.
It's interesting, you know, it
doesn't seem advertised, I guess
it's deep in goodies on
your, on your homepage. Right.
But I can type in,
you know, myself and then
get, say, exclamation point G
and go to Google. If
it didn't work, which means
I could keep duct deco
is my homepage and still
have access to now three
search engines without a lot
of extra clicking or typing.
Yeah. And it w what's
great is besides other search
engines, you can get to
all these other sites that
you want to generally go
to and search, not through
a search engine. So like
I w I use Amazon
all the time. Some people
have learned just to type
in Amazon, something in a
search engine, but I find
it much better to go
directly to Amazon and search.
Generally, it takes longer if
you're just on Google to
do that. But with the
bank commands, you can just
put exclamation, Hey, I do
the search and it'll do
the exact search for you
on Amazon. So it actually
saves you time. So I
use that, and then I
use a bunch of programming
ones. Cause there's, there's tons
of programming ones in there.
So I do pro a
lot. So I do like
C pan and I use,
you know, like CSS and
that kind of stuff. Interesting.
And this is, this is,
this is different than typing
in Amazon. Like I do
that 10 times I'll type
in Amazon. Plus the thing
I'm searching for that doesn't
tell Google necessarily to go
search for that. It just
adds Amazon into the keyword
list. Well, this seems much
more targeted. Exactly. The other
one is suboptimal a number
of ways, but it's actually
faster. If you had to
go to Amazon and then
find the search box, but
what the bank command, it
ends up being faster. And
so I think it's a
more optimal solution. No, that
is slick. And it looks
like you've got hundreds of
these things and there's a
dropdown down. That'll let you
get to them. Yep. Yep.
Basically any big site, we
probably have it. And then
we have tons of other
ones, tons of programming related
tech related ones. And is
it all word of mouth?
I mean, is my mom,
how's my mom, wouldn't learn
about duck, duck go. Other
than me telling her We've
grown mainly through word of
mouth. We've had some decent
press, like we were named
a one a time as
best 50 websites earlier this
year, over 2011. And so
that gave some press, I
actually bought a, we bought
a billboard at San Francisco
on around privacy that said,
Google tracks you, we don't,
that also brought in some
users, but you know, that's
an open question. Well, this
is pretty amazing stuff. And
people can check out your
blog at  dot com
and you've got like lots
of really interesting posts. And
if they just go to
Gabriel weinberg.com, they'll be able
to see you information about
you, where they can follow
you on Twitter and duck,
duck go also has a
short URL, right? Isn't that
a ddg.gg. Yep. Very cool.
Well, thanks so much for
chatting with me. I really
appreciate it. Thank you much
for having me. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.